README.md, before:

# Erlang C Node for the Pony Language (spike/WIP)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/d-led/otp_pony_node.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/d-led/otp_pony_node)

- build: OSX, Linux: `./build.sh`, Windows: `build.bat`
- demo: `./test.sh`

successful POC:

- messages received
- graceful handling of a failed receive
- parsing the messages (in progress)

```txt
$ ./otp_pony_node
Connection successful
1: ERL_SMALL_TUPLE 2bytes
3: ERL_PID 0bytes
29: ERL_BINARY 6bytes
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 7: Hi!
1: ERL_SMALL_TUPLE 2bytes
3: ERL_PID 0bytes
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
29: ERL_BINARY 6bytes
atom: 6: Hi!
Receive failed. Disconnectin
```

windows (release mode, messages sent from iex):

```txt
D:\src\otp_pony_node>otp_pony_node.exe
Connection successful
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 0: Hi!
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 1: Hi!
Receive failed. Disconnecting
```

## Sending messages to the Pony node from the IEx

```elixir
$ iex --sname demo@localhost --cookie secretcookie
iex(demo@localhost)1> {:ok, hostname} = :inet.gethostname
{:ok, '...'}
iex(demo@localhost)2> pony = {:any, :"pony@#{String.downcase("#{hostname}")}"}
{:any, :"pony@..."}
iex(demo@localhost)3> send(pony, {self(),"0: Hi!"})
{#PID<0.109.0>, "0: Hi!"}
```

## Backlog

- send (with timeout)
- testing strategy
- remove the double term type checking in decode functions after testing is in place
- remove the demo executable and treat the project as a library
- reconnects / actor interface design?

## Dependencies

### ei_connect

- http://erlang.org/doc/man/ei_connect.html [Apache License 2.0](https://www.erlang.org/about)
- key API currently in use
  - `ei_set_tracelevel`
  - `ei_connect`
  - `ei_xreceive_msg`
  - [`ei_decode_*`](http://erlang.org/doc/man/ei.html)

### Pony

- https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc [BSD 2-Clause](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/blob/master/LICENSE)

### Elixir

- used for the demo
- https://elixir-lang.org [Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/master/LICENSE)

### Premake

- simplified meta-build
- http://premake.github.io [BSD 3-Clause](https://github.com/premake/premake-core/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

## Development

- Tested on OSX & Linux currently
- `vagrant up` if you don't want to install the dependencies yourself

Commit message:

source structure readme [ci skip]

README.md, after:

# Erlang C Node for the Pony Language (spike/WIP)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/d-led/otp_pony_node.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/d-led/otp_pony_node)

- build: OSX, Linux: `./build.sh`, Windows: `build.bat`
- demo: `./test.sh`

successful POC:

- messages received
- graceful handling of a failed receive
- parsing the messages (in progress)

```txt
$ ./otp_pony_node
Connection successful
1: ERL_SMALL_TUPLE 2bytes
3: ERL_PID 0bytes
29: ERL_BINARY 6bytes
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 7: Hi!
1: ERL_SMALL_TUPLE 2bytes
3: ERL_PID 0bytes
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
29: ERL_BINARY 6bytes
atom: 6: Hi!
Receive failed. Disconnectin
```

windows (release mode, messages sent from iex):

```txt
D:\src\otp_pony_node>otp_pony_node.exe
Connection successful
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 0: Hi!
Received: 100bytes
pid: demo@localhost
atom: 1: Hi!
Receive failed. Disconnecting
```

## Sending messages to the Pony node from the IEx

```elixir
$ iex --sname demo@localhost --cookie secretcookie
iex(demo@localhost)1> {:ok, hostname} = :inet.gethostname
{:ok, '...'}
iex(demo@localhost)2> pony = {:any, :"pony@#{String.downcase("#{hostname}")}"}
{:any, :"pony@..."}
iex(demo@localhost)3> send(pony, {self(),"0: Hi!"})
{#PID<0.109.0>, "0: Hi!"}
```

## Backlog

- send (with timeout)
- testing strategy
- remove the double term type checking in decode functions after testing is in place
- remove the demo executable and treat the project as a library
- reconnects / actor interface design?

## Development

- Linux, OSX, Windows build config via Premake
- `vagrant up` if you don't want to install the dependencies yourself

### Source Structure

- [erl_interface_pony](erl_interface_pony) the Pony API to `ei_connect`
- [src/otp_pony_node_c](src/otp_pony_node_c) - a slim wrapper around `ei_connect` (see below)
- [demo](demo) a Pony "main" spike used to get familiar with the `ei_connect` API and bootstrap the project: connects to an Erlang node and awaits message tuples
- [demo.exs](demo.exs) the OTP/Elixir counterpart to the Pony demo, which sends the expected messages
- [build](build) build config generated via premake from [premake5.lua](premake5.lua)

## Dependencies

### ei_connect

- http://erlang.org/doc/man/ei_connect.html [Apache License 2.0](https://www.erlang.org/about)
- key API currently in use
  - `ei_set_tracelevel`
  - `ei_connect`
  - `ei_xreceive_msg`
  - [`ei_decode_*`](http://erlang.org/doc/man/ei.html)

### Pony

- https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc [BSD 2-Clause](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/blob/master/LICENSE)

### Elixir

- used for the demo
- https://elixir-lang.org [Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/master/LICENSE)

### Premake

- simplified meta-build
- http://premake.github.io [BSD 3-Clause](https://github.com/premake/premake-core/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)
